3© Copyright 2020, PPDM Association. All Rights Reserved • www.PPDM.org
Introduction
Clear, well-defined reference value lists which convey
information with precision and clarity are essential to
unambiguous communication, integration and interoperability.
Members of the PPDM Association expend considerable
energy and attention to identifying and resolving key areas
where current reference lists are conflicting or unclear.
Well status and classification reference lists used today
usually combine many kinds of information in one list, to
the extent that one value in a list may explicitly convey
more than one kind of information in a complex code, imply
(but not state) critical information, or even leave important
information out entirely.
FACETED TAXONOMY
One approach to creating useful reference lists is to assemble
various relevant properties into a logical set as has been
done in “Well Status and Classification”. The set is a faceted
taxonomy, and each list is one facet in the taxonomy.
Each facet is constructed according to some simple
rules:
• Each facet describes one property of an object or description,
and therefore contains only one kind of information.
• The facets work together to tell a complete story about
a well and its components from multiple points of view.
• The values in each facet should be mutually exclusive
with values in other facets of the taxonomy.
• Values in a facet may be hierarchical. Users should be
able to select at any level of the hierarchy that is relevant
to their purpose. Data retrieval or reporting may leverage
the hierarchies.
• Unambiguous criteria must be used for the selection
of any facet value. If more than one value may be
appropriate to a business purpose, the business rules for
selection should be reviewed, or the design of the facet
may be flawed. Local criteria may be used to choose the
best level in the case of a hierarchal facet.
A faceted taxonomy offers some powerful
functionality:
• Objects can be retrieved from one or more datasets
according to their value in a single facet.
• By combining information from many facets, users can
group objects for many business purposes.
• A properly constructed set of facets allows rapid retrieval
of data objects according to criteria that are familiar to
users, without requiring complex queries or knowledge
of the data structure. While this information is derivable
from a good data store, facets can be helpful shortcuts.
• Facets can be used to develop symbol sets or dashboard
displays as appropriate.
Well Status &
Classification v3
Overview
A faceted taxonomy was created by the PPDM Association
to deal with the multitude of values describing wells in the
global petroleum industry. This is an evolving product,
responding to changes in data management needs and
practices. Version 2 (2016) is in wide use but a survey of
members in 2018 showed opportunities for enhancements.
A work group of member volunteers began in 2019 and
finalized Version 3 in March 2020. The process uses The
PPDM Way — priorities, expertise and resources are
provided by our members, supported by the Association’s
staff.
The facets are designed and arranged according to life
cycle, stakeholder perspectives and significant events or
conditions.
The changes from Version 2 are documented
separately. In summary, the main changes are:
• Simplify the phases of the well life cycle.
• Show the different perspectives of the stakeholders in
the context of the life cycle.
• Distinguish the life cycle of a permit (regulatory
authorization) from the life cycle of a well.
• Recognize that well status and wellbore status may be
different, even at the same time.
• Reword some facet names and facet values to improve
clarity.
• Combine or split some facets to improve the logic of the
taxonomy.
• Eliminate facets for Lahee Class and Well Reporting
Class.


5© Copyright 2020, PPDM Association. All Rights Reserved • www.PPDM.org
Well Status & Classification v3
Life Cycle
Life Cycle is a set of major phases that are significant to regulators and/or business stakeholders.
Life Cycle may apply to a well or its components.
Facet Value Facet Value Definition
Planning Planning is all the activities of the Life Cycle before construction has commenced. It
includes designing a well and obtaining management and regulatory approvals.
Constructing Constructing is the approved activities of the Life Cycle prior to operation.
Operating Operating is the activities of the Life Cycle while the well or component is capable of
performing its intended Role. It includes periods where the well is temporarily shut in.
Closing Closing is the set of activities of the Life Cycle to make the well or component
permanently incapable of any Role.
Closed Closed is the phase of the Life Cycle when the well or component is permanently
incapable of performing any Role